Document how to ask engineers for overtime (#2413)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/ask-for-technical-support-out-of-hours.html.md

---
owner_slack: "#govuk-tech-overtime"
title: Ask for technical support out of hours
parent: "/manual.html"
layout: manual_layout
section: Overtime
type: how_to
last_reviewed_on: 2020-03-17
review_in: 6 months
---

We try to make the GOV.UK publishing platforms as self-service as possible, so
technical involvement in content changes should usually be unnecessary.

In some situations, such as site wide changes or urgent new features, we may
need engineers to help make changes outside working hours (before 9am or
after 6pm on weekdays, or at weekends).

Planned out of hours work is separate to the primary and secondary on-call
rotas. These should only be used for responding to unplanned incidents.

To reduce stress and risk, we have a standard process for requesting technical
work out of hours.

## Work out what needs to be done

First of all, make sure you understand the user need that's being addressed by the change.

Talk to [the team that owns the application](/apps/by-team.html) you need to
change to confirm that this is something that needs to be done by engineers out of hours.

> ## Give us as much notice as possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Give developers as much notice as possible
```

Please give us as much notice as you can.

We appreciate this may not always be possible in urgent situations, but the
more notice we have the better we can prepare and look after people.

## Ask us for help on Slack

[#govuk-tech-overtime](https://gds.slack.com/archives/C0105S28F7A)

This slack channel is monitored by GOV.UK delivery managers and senior members
of the technical team, who can help triage your request and find the right
people to help you.

We'll keep a close eye on the channel during working hours.

You should be able to explain:

* what you need
* why it's important
* why it needs to happen out of hours
* why it needs an engineer to make the change

> You should let us know who the main point of contact should be from a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should let the developer(s) know who the main point of contact should be from a
```

non-technical point of view.

> Let us know who you've worked with so far (for example if you've already spoken

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let the developer(s) know who you've worked with so far (for example if you've already spoken
```
